I got a message from a viewer I guess
I'll call him John his name his name's
actually John he says quote unrelated to
this video but I always wanted to ask
you something I've heard you say on
multiple occasions that you're not a
socialist and not a communist this is
true quote I feel as though you've not
even put yourself on the left wing not
that it matters very much so close quote
I'll come back as marriage it depends on
where I'm living so if we move to Texas
I think I'm left wing in Texas quote
despite this I could imagine you'd be
critical of an american-style system
which creates the incredible net melt of
inequality that it does pause wait his
point is can you speak to how you to
improve upon this american-style
free-market system without creating a
Cuban or venezuelan style system this is
question one question two also do you
generally agree that inequity is the
enemy of democracy um so the second the
second question is the fastest to answer
so Melissa and I have been reading the
ancient Greek she's doing her own video
so I'm not gonna attribute I'm not gonna
speak for Melissa but the the issue of
equality is huge in Athenian democracy
it's huge and fundamental and the world
would be a better place if people had a
better education in the ancient Greeks
you know there was a very simple line
from pseudo Xenophon talking about the
the constitution of athens and you know
he says bluntly in passing a democracy
is a country ruled by the poorest
democracy is a system that puts
governments in government in the hands
of the poorest right that's something
totally different from equality right
and that's my concern
I want government for the poor of the
poor by the poor
and this was seen as as both the
advantage and the disadvantage of Athens
was that decisions were being made in
the interests of the poor by and for the
poor and of course interestingly a
figure like Cicero he's very much
reacting against that he's really an
anti-democratic philosopher although you
know he plays his cards carefully so he
doesn't seem like too much of a fascist
and you know Plato and many of these
other people the people who actually
lived through the execution of Socrates
probably because they saw the death of
Socrates there was so chakra that a lot
of them really became critics of
democracy or somewhat anteed but many of
the most the most eloquent philosophers
we have that let us see the virtues of
Athenian democracy were themselves harsh
critics of Athenian mockery and they
were not comfortable at all with rule by
the poor and they pointed out again even
pseudo Xenophon himself they say well he
says well if you let the poor control
government they build these bath houses
you can pick your bath houses in beside
boys then they spend the government
budget on the Olympic Games and
festivals and you know crowd pleasing
sports stadiums and [ __ ] it's true you
know Port Angeles to say this is this
this is actually my concern is not
equality now of course with that Ivan
said obviously when one political power
is in the hands of the poor or it's
functioning for the poor when government
is for and about the forests it's gonna
meliorate the conditions of the poor I
don't think it creates equality per se
but it creates for example access to
education and health care and roads and
all kinds of benefits for you know so
yeah but this is a different conceptual
design and also again this reflects my
fundamental nihilistic ethic which is
that I say no for me ethics is about
doing the best you can
this is very different from starting
with a kind of geometric concept of
equality alright so the other half of
this so sir he's asking do you generally
agree that inequality is the enemy of
democracy and my answer is no the enemy
of democracy is aristocracy the enemy of
democracy is oligarchy the enemy of
democracy is monarchy
throw it hand although today it's not as
much of a threat if you are ruled by an
oligarchy which is in my opinion what
Canada is ruled by people once we have a
system of polite oligarchy then
democracy takes that unequal triangle
and turns it upside down but it's still
an unequal triangle and you know sure it
will probably better for the poor hard
to see how it'd be worse if you I mean
just think about it sorry Canadian
Parliament has so many hundred seats I
don't know the number NORs how many of
them are occupied by poor people how
many of the market by by the poorest to
use superfoods I mean really poor you
only know Obama people thought people
don't know about me was a professor of
law at MIT people thought that Obama is
being bored was poor compared to Mitt
Romney Mitt Romney was a motivator you
know Donald Trump is a multi-millionaire
so so compared to these people people
that go balls for I'm not talking of
host law professors I'm talking about
really poor people how often do poor
people even speak in Parliament never
but you know my point is know this is
taking that triangle and turning it
upside down it's not turning the
triangle into a square
okay mixed metaphor no does that make
sense
[Music]